# Collecting the Story
The heart of our video - the three main sections. Your footage should either answer or fulfill the questions for each section, either with dialogue, monologue, or visuals.

## 1. Introduction: Who? Where?
(... and maybe _When?_ But only if it's truly relevant.)

### The Objective
Our introduction opens up the door into the world of our video story as simply as possible, using the visuals or resources we know we have available to us when we start recording.

We focus on CHARACTER and the ENVIRONMENT creating tension, demonstrating the vulnerabilities (and/or humor) of CHARACTER. It is important to communicate the conflict or the potential for conflict.

#### What should the audience infer about our CHARACTER from his or her basic ENVIRONMENT?

#### 
What is CHARACTER’s humor or vulnerability and how is it demonstrated?

### The Content
#### What will make CHARACTER ideal for disruption by FORCE? Which available visuals will best demonstrate that?

#### Which available visuals will best demonstrate the importance of ENVIRONMENT? 

* Related Enhancements: Context & Establishment

Keep in mind that our FORCE is our project: our project, service, event, charity, etc. We have used Section 1 to set-up the world of our CHARACTER, so now it’s time to present our project.

## 2. Information: What's Up?
### The Objective
ENVIRONMENT has been creating tension with CHARACTER. In Section 2, FORCE enters the story in order to—eventually—save the day. Now, we focus on communicating the details of FORCE which will make it appealing to CHARACTER.

#### How do we see onscreen the FORCE coming into the life of CHARACTER?

#### How is CHARACTER and/or ENVIRONMENT experiencing the FORCE? What makes it obvious?

### The Content
#### What visuals will really hit home the positive effects of our FORCE?

#### How can we create suspense leading to the RESULT?


* Related Enhancements: B-Roll

Section 2 has presented our project. Now, we focus on demonstrating the RESULT in order to leverage the empathy we have developed between our audience and CHARACTER.

## 3. Engagement: How? (Why?)
### The Objective
We encourage the audience to interact with FORCE (product/service). We further show the RESULT of FORCE on our demographic, with testimonials, visuals, explanations, etc.

#### What is the RESULT of CHARACTER and/or ENVIRONMENT meeting FORCE?

#### What emotions or feelings should be invoked in the audience?
#### How can the audience interact? What do we want our audience to feel called to do afterwards?
### The Content
#### How are we able to visually demonstrate the result?</h4>
#### How can the audience most easily interact with force?
#### What onscreen visuals can enhance the emotions or feelings of the audience?