# COLLECTING THE STORY
Next we’ll shift gears and begin to explore how we can actually bring this story to life. We’ll first ask ourselves some questions about our equipment, its limitations, and how we can stylize our content.

## EQUIPMENT LIMITATIONS
#### What is the max resolution of our recording device? (i.e. 4k, 2k, 1080p, 720p)
A higher resolution may allow us to crop the video file later, to add some movement or zoom to what could otherwise be a static (and perhaps boring) shot.

#### What is the max framerate our device can capture? (i.e. 30fps, 60fps, 120fps)
24fps (frames per second) was standard for film, 30fps is standard for video. One of those is probably where your final video will end up. If we set up our camera to shoot at, say 60fps, that will allow us to later convert certain shots to slow motion. Note that in most cases, super slo-mo (120+fps) will not record audio, so let’s only use that setting for very special shots.

#### How does our audio sound? Do we have an extra device to use as a microphone?
Remember, if we have to focus our attention on trying to make out what the subject is saying, we’ll probably eventually give up. Making sure our audio source is clean is pivotal.

#### Do we need a tripod?
Think about the content we are portraying: how can it be active and dynamic? In most cases, shots longer than a few seconds on a tripod will lose the audience’s attention. If, however, we will be recording a lot of dialogue to get creative with later, a tripod will be a good idea.

## STYLE & TECHNIQUE: YOUR FORMAT
#### What are our locations like?
These locations, are they visually intriguing? Will these environment be interesting to look at for an audience? If we can’t think of anything, remember that camera movement and character accentuation will come in handy to make up for a lack of visual interest.

#### How does voice and audio sound in this location?
For sake of a clean audio recording, for shots of someone speaking try to avoid noisy areas, crowds, locations with unwanted echos, or empty rooms with strong reverb that will make the character’s voice sound tinny. The closer the microphone is to the voice, the better.

#### Are we going for a certain look, style or genre?
Are we creating a sort of documentary, with interviews of different people? Or is it organic narrative, a day-in-the-life, behind-the-scenes? Artsy? Comedic? Style can help tell a story.

Now we’ll dive directly into our three main storytelling sections. Your footage should either answer or fulfill the questions for each section, either with dialogue, monologue, or visuals.

## 1.     INTRODUCTION: WHO? WHERE? (WHEN?)

### THE OBJECTIVE
Our introduction opens up the door into the world of our video story as simply as possible. We focus on CHARACTER and the ENVIRONMENT creating tension, demonstrating the vulnerabilities (and/or humor) of CHARACTER. It is important to communicate the conflict.

#### WHO IS AFFECTED BY THE FORCE OF OUR STORY? 




#### WHERE IS THIS STORY TAKING PLACE? WHAT SHOULD THE AUDIENCE INFER FROM THAT?




#### WHAT IS CHARACTER’S HUMOR OR VULNERABILITY AND HOW IS IT DEMONSTRATED?



### THE CONTENT
#### WHAT MAKES CHARACTER IDEAL FOR DISRUPTION BY FORCE?




#### WHICH AVAILABLE VISUALS WILL BEST DEMONSTRATE THESE ASPECTS OF CHARACTER?




#### WHICH AVAILABLE VISUALS WILL BEST DEMONSTRATE THESE ASPECTS OF ENVIRONMENT?



#### <em>RELATED ENHANCEMENTS: Context & Establishment</em>


Keep in mind that our FORCE is our project: our project, service, event, charity, etc. We have used Section 1 to set-up the world of our CHARACTER, so now it’s time to present our project.

## 2.     INFORMATION: WHAT’S UP?
### THE OBJECTIVE
ENVIRONMENT has been creating tension with CHARACTER. In Section 2, FORCE enters the story in order to—eventually—save the day. Now, we focus on communicating the details of FORCE which will make it appealing to CHARACTER.

#### WHAT IS THE FORCE OF OUR STORY?




#### HOW IS CHARACTER AND/OR ENVIRONMENT BEING AFFECTED BY FORCE?




#### HOW IS CHARACTER AND/OR ENVIRONMENT PERCEIVING THIS EFFECT?



### THE CONTENT
#### HOW CAN WE VISUALLY DESCRIBE OUR FORCE?




#### HOW CAN WE SHOW OUR CHARACTER/ENVIRONMENT INTERACTING WITH THIS FORCE?



#### HOW CAN WE CREATE SUSPENSE LEADING TO THE RESULT?



#### <em>RELATED ENHANCEMENTS: B-Roll</em>

Section 2 has presented our project. Now, we focus on demonstrating the RESULT in order to leverage the empathy we have developed between our audience and CHARACTER.

## 3.       ENGAGEMENT: HOW?
### THE OBJECTIVE
We encourage the audience to interact with FORCE (product/service). We further show the RESULT of FORCE on our demographic, with testimonials, visuals, explanations, etc.

#### WHAT IS THE RESULT OF FORCE WITH CHARACTER/ENVIRONMENT?




#### WHAT EMOTIONS OR FEELINGS SHOULD BE INVOKED IN THE AUDIENCE?



#### HOW CAN THE AUDIENCE INTERACT? WHAT DO WE WANT OUR AUDIENCE TO FEEL CALLED TO DO? (CALL-TO-ACTION: emotional response, buy SOMETHING, DONATE, VOLUNTEER, etc)



### THE CONTENT
#### HOW ARE WE ABLE TO VISUALLY DEMONSTRATE THE RESULT?




#### HOW CAN THE AUDIENCE MOST EASILY INTERACT WITH FORCE?




#### WHAT ONSCREEN VISUALS CAN ENHANCE THE EMOTIONS OR FEELINGS OF THE AUDIENCE?



### <em>RELATED ENHANCEMENTS: TESTIMONIALS & REVIEWS</em>
